v9.0-prealpha (#5)
NeotokyoRebuild/NeotokyoRebuild.github.io: src/blog/2024-10-13/index.md

title: Pre-Alpha v9.0 Release Note
summary: Release note for Neotokyo; Rebuild Pre-Alpha v9.0
author: nullsystem

# Pre-Alpha v9.0 Release Note
2024-10-13 nullsystem

* [Download v9.0-prealpha build](https://github.com/NeotokyoRebuild/neo/releases/tag/v9.0-prealpha)
* [Install NT;RE (client)](/guide/install/)
* [GitHub Issues (Bug reports and feature requests)](https://github.com/NeotokyoRebuild/neo/issues)

## Known issue

> * Player collision has been broken in v9.0-prealpha due to attemping enemy collision, wait for v9.1-prealpha release for the fix

Reviewer: specify enemy-only collision?

## New features

### VIP and TDM gamemodes
VIP mode turns CTG capture points into VIP escape points and a random person is selected as a VIP.
A VIP objective is to escape to the escape points while teammates tries to protect the

> VIP. The enemy instantly wins the round if the VIP gets killed. The VIP have a different player model, stats,

Reviewer: The VIP has a different player model

> and is limited to the SMAC (VIP exlusive weapon).

Reviewer: Currently the VIP has its own loadout screen with multiple different weapons

> TDM mode turns off both CTG capture points and ghosts, but enables respawning and round time extended to 10.25m.

Reviewer: but enables respawning, and round time is extended

Oxford comma is optional https://www.grammarbook.com/blog/commas/oxford-comma/

The new convars for these settings are as follows:

* `neo_vote_game_mode` - 1 by default, Vote on game mode to play. TDM=0, CTG=1, VIP=2

> * `neo_vip_eligible` - 1 by default, Eligible for VIP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `neo_vip_eligible` - 1 by default, change to 0 to disable chance of being picked as VIP.
```

* `sv_neo_vip_ctg_on_death` - 0 by default, Spawn Ghost when VIP dies, continue the game
* `sv_neo_change_game_type_mid_round` - 1 by default, Allow game type change mid-match
* `neo_tdm_round_timelimit` - 10.25 by default, TDM round timelimit, in minutes
* `neo_ctg_round_timelimit` - 3.25 by default, CTG round timelimit, in minutes
* `neo_vip_round_timelimit` - 3.25 by default, VIP round timelimit, in minutes

### Custom crosshair
You can now easily customize your crosshair. Inside options there is now a new tab called "Crosshair" and from here

> you can pick between a textured or custom crosshair. All type of crosshair has the ability to change color, while a

Reviewer: All types of crosshair have the ability to change color

Optional: "All crosshairs' color can be changed, with the custom crosshair having further settings typical of crosshair customization"

"custom" crosshair have lots of settings typical for crosshair customization.

The new convars for these settings are as follows:

* `neo_cl_crosshair_style` - 0 by default, Set the crosshair style. 0 = default, 0 to 1 = textured, 2 = custom

> * `neo_cl_crosshair_color_[rgba]` - 255 by default, Set the [red/green/blue/alpha] value of the crosshair color

Reviewer 2: Little nit, but I'm willing to bet someone wont understand this. An example might help
```suggestion
* `neo_cl_crosshair_color_[rgba]` - 255 by default, Set the [red/green/blue/alpha] value of the crosshair color
Example: `neo_cl_crosshair_color_r 255`
```

    * `neo_cl_crosshair_circle_radius` - 0 by default, Set the circle radius of the crosshair
    * `neo_cl_crosshair_circle_segments` - 30 by default, Set the segments of the circle

### Ready up mechanic
Ready up mechanic is now implemented, disabled by default. Use `neo_sv_readyup_lobby 1` server-side to enable it.
Players can use the `!ready`/`!unready` commands to ready-up, as well as `!overridelimit` to allow for more players
and `!playersnotready` to list players not ready.

The new convars for these settings are as follows:

* `neo_sv_readyup_lobby` - 0 by default, toggles the ready-up feature
* `neo_sv_readyup_teamplayersthres` - 5 by default, the exact amount of players to ready-up and participate to start a game
* `neo_sv_readyup_skipwarmup` - 1 by default, if ready-up feature is on and this is enabled, skip warmup state
* `neo_sv_readyup_autointermission` - 0 by default, if disabled will not automatically enter intermission when the match ends

### Player outlines in spectator mode
Using the `+attack2` keybind (default `x`), can toggle between player outlines/indicators

## Cloaking and visions

> * All visions (night vision, motion, and thermal) now have improved shaders which is now closer to OG:NT's visions

Reviewer: which are now closer to

> * Cloaking material is now improved, tweaked values such as strength, speed, and distance effects more similar to OG:NT as well as when looked upon vision modes

Reviewer: "Cloaking material is improved"

the word "now" I think is unnecessary here

Reviewer: as well as when looked upon using vision modes?

## General fixes/changes

* Cleaner scope texturing and minor color adjustment

> * Workaround throwables (EX: grenades) being clipped to the ground, now can pick up grenades as normal

Reviewer: (EX: grenades) clipping through the ground

> * Grenade now throw closer to the center of the screen

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Grenades now throw closer to the center of the screen
```

* Fixed general console errors, spams, and startup errors

> * Fixed wrong weapon set for the damage/killer information menu

Reviewer: Fixed wrong weapon name used in the damage/killer

Not wrong but I think this is clearer

> * Fixed reload sounds, now spatial and stops on switching/droppping

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fixed reload sounds, now spatial and stops on switching/dropping
```

> * Fixed reload sounds, now spatial and stops on switching/droppping

Reviewer: and stop when switching/dropping the weapon

Again not wrong but I think this is clearer

* Prevent changing skins mid-round
* Weapon selection available 15 seconds after round is live, 25 seconds after spawning

> * Fixed default round timings - 3m:15s for a round, 15s for pre-round freezetime

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fixed default round timings - 3m 15s for a round, 15s for pre-round freezetime
```

> * Fixed default round timings - 3m:15s for a round, 15s for pre-round freezetime

Reviewer: make it clearer 15 seconds are part of the 3m:15s round total time?

* Round state HUD clear and reload avatar images on reload scheme
* Allow player respawning during the first 3s of the server loaded in
* Disable tachi duplicate muzzle flash
* Adjust uplink HUD for larger displays (1440p/4k)
* Fixed spawning in without a loadout
* Stylized the chat box inspired by OG:NT
* Lower weapons on ladder
* Fixed center message to be more like OG:NT
* Fixed detpack's sound

> * Fixed switching to a weapon without ammo disappearing viewmodel

Reviewer: Fixed view model disappearing when switching to an empty weapon

* Integrate Tony Sergi's fixes for the model animations
* Stop camera from falling on initial team selection
* Give knife attack some force

> * Fixed weapon stealing on very close spawns

Reviewer: I think this is more related to the elevator specifically rather than spawns being close together. But not sure tbh

Author: Looks like the name used for those kind of spawn is "teleporting spawns", so will change over naming to that. Looks like a way to make elevator spawn work.

## Main menu fixes/changes

> * Add the ability to rebind the console key. This is mostly to help out players with keyboards that does not have the backquote key.

Reviewer: that do not have the

> * On startup, fetches the blog list from the website and opens in your default browser when clicking on one. Limited to once per day.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* On startup, fetches the blog list from the website and opens in your default browser when clicking on one. (Only fetches once per day to prevent rate limiting).
```

> * On startup, fetches the blog list from the website and opens in your default browser when clicking on one. Limited to once per day.

Reviewer: when clicking on one item in the list?

Also clarify the fetch is limited to once per day, not clicking on a link limited to once per day

* Can now reset the settings back to default and fix NT;RE-specific settings not being applied
* Hide console on ESC, mostly to improve behavior between console and NeoUI
* Add a scrollbar for scrollable sections (EX: Map list, Options keybindings)
* There is now a new loading screen which replaces the floating progress window with one written in NeoUI

## Infrastructure

> * Binary files is now moved into a [separate repository](https://github.com/NeotokyoRebuild/neoAssets).

Reviewer: Binary files (were moved into a/ are now in a)

title: Pre-Alpha v9.0 Release Note
summary: Release note for Neotokyo; Rebuild Pre-Alpha v9.0
author: nullsystem

# Pre-Alpha v9.0 Release Note
2024-10-13 nullsystem (Proof-read by AdamTadeusz, brysondev, xedmain)

* [Download v9.0-prealpha build](https://github.com/NeotokyoRebuild/neo/releases/tag/v9.0-prealpha)
* [Install NT;RE (client)](/guide/install/)
* [GitHub Issues (Bug reports and feature requests)](https://github.com/NeotokyoRebuild/neo/issues)

## Known issue

* Player collision has been broken in v9.0-prealpha due to attemping enemy-only collision, wait for v9.1-prealpha release for the fix

## New features

### VIP and TDM gamemodes
VIP mode turns CTG capture points into VIP escape points and a random person is selected as a VIP.

> A VIP objective is to escape to the escape points while teammates tries to protect the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The VIP's objective is to escape by reaching the objective, while teammates tries to protect them
```

> VIP. The enemy instantly wins the round if the VIP gets killed. The VIP has a different player model, stats,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The enemy instantly wins the round if the VIP is killed. The VIP has a different player model, stats,
```

and its own set of available loadouts including exclusive access to the SMAC.

> TDM mode turns off both CTG capture points and ghosts, but enables respawning, and round time is extended to 10.25m.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TDM mode turns off both CTG capture points & ghosts, and enables respawning. The round time is extended to 10.25m.
```

The new convars for these settings are as follows:

* `neo_vote_game_mode` - 1 by default, Vote on game mode to play. TDM=0, CTG=1, VIP=2
* `neo_vip_eligible` - 1 by default, change to 0 to disable chance of being picked as VIP

> * `sv_neo_vip_ctg_on_death` - 0 by default, Spawn Ghost when VIP dies, continue the game

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `sv_neo_vip_ctg_on_death` - 0 by default, Ghost spawns when VIP dies, continue the game as if it were CTG
```

* `sv_neo_change_game_type_mid_round` - 1 by default, Allow game type change mid-match
* `neo_tdm_round_timelimit` - 10.25 by default, TDM round timelimit, in minutes
* `neo_ctg_round_timelimit` - 3.25 by default, CTG round timelimit, in minutes
* `neo_vip_round_timelimit` - 3.25 by default, VIP round timelimit, in minutes

### Custom crosshair
You can now easily customize your crosshair. Inside options there is now a new tab called "Crosshair" and from here
you can pick between a textured or custom crosshair.

> All crosshairs' color can be changed, with the custom crosshair having further settings typical of crosshair customization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All crosshair colors can be changed, with the custom crosshair having further settings typical of crosshair customization.
```

* Grenades now throw closer to the center of the screen
* Fixed general console errors, spams, and startup errors
* Fixed wrong weapon name used in the damage/killer
* Fixed reload sounds, now spatial and stop when switching/dropping the weapon
* Prevent changing skins mid-round
* Weapon selection available 15 seconds after round is live, 25 seconds after spawning
* Fixed default round timings - 3m 15s for the total round time, 15s for pre-round freezetime (which is part of the total round time)
* Round state HUD clear and reload avatar images on reload scheme
* Allow player respawning during the first 3s of the server loaded in
* Disable tachi duplicate muzzle flash
* Adjust uplink HUD for larger displays (1440p/4k)
* Fixed spawning in without a loadout
* Stylized the chat box inspired by original NEOTOKYO°
* Lower weapons on ladder
* Fixed center message to be more like original NEOTOKYO°
* Fixed detpack's sound
* Fixed view model disappearing when switching to an empty weapon
* Integrate Tony Sergi's fixes for the model animations
* Stop camera from falling on initial team selection
* Give knife attack some force

> * Fixed weapon stealing on teleporting spawns (EX: elevator spawns)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fixed weapon stealing on teleporting spawns (EX: elevator spawns on nt_snowfall_ctg)
```
